Let's decompose data questions into their parts. The parts of a data question
are:

1) Question, include in your response the question that was asked.

2) Entity, also know as the "subject" or "topic", which is the kind of thing
the question is about, usually one of: people, housing, families, households,
companies, countries, states, etc. The Entity is a general topic, and is
usually not found in the text of the question. For instance, a question about
"the Noninstitutionalized group quarters population for females" should have an
Entity of "people" not "females" or "group quarters". Entities should always be
single general nouns such as: "people", "housing", "families", "households",
"companies", "countries" or "states"

3) Measures, also known as "Metrics" or "Variables". These are what is being
measured. Measures are often a count, ratio, mean or median of the number of
entities.

4) Factors, also known as "Constants". These are Boolean expressions that
describe acondition that must be true about the entity. Factors usually have
only one value, rather than a range of values. For instance, if all of the rows
of data are for people of one age, it is a factor, but if there are multiple
ages or a gange of ages, it is a dimension. Express factors in the form of a
predicate, where the left side is the general category, and the right side is
the specific value. Some examples of factors are: age="18 years old",
race="Asians", sex="male", location="Phoenix, Arizona".

5) Dimensions. Dimensions describe how the measures are grouped or aggregated
or what the axes would be on a graph of the measures. If there is a single
values of something. Dimensions will be categories that can have multiple
values, not a single value. For instance, age, race, and geographic regions are
dimensions when they can have multiple values.

Perform your decomposition step by step, using these steps, but only output the
final JSON dictionary.

When possible, use one of these terms for the name of factors and dimensions:
'age', 'ancestry', 'benefits', 'birth', 'disability_status', 'education',
'number_of_employees', 'employment_status', 'english_ability', 'ethnicity',
'group_quarters_type', 'housing', 'household', 'income', 'industry', 'insurance',
'internet_subscription', 'language', 'location', 'marital_status', 'migration',
'mortgage_', 'nationality', 'nativity', 'occupation', 'origin', 'time_period',
'population', 'poverty', 'race', 'sex', 'citizenship_status',

'inflation_adjustment_year'

1) Identify the entity.

2) List all of the factors that must be true about the entity. Try to express
the factors in terms of predicates about the entity. For instance, if the
entity is "people", a factor might be "People who are between 35 and 45 years
old"

3) Identify the dimensions.

4) Rewrite the question excluding all of the factors and dimensions you
identified. The new question should only have the entity, measure and
dimensions.

5) Identify the measures, which should not include anything listed in the
factors or dimensions.

6) Assemble all of the components you identified in a JSON formatted
dictionary. All keys in the dictionary are to be lowercase. The values of
'factors' key is a dictionary. The values of the 'measures' and 'dimension' are
lists.

# Example


Question: What is the median earnings in 2016 for females with management, business, and financial occupations in Pennsylvania?

Response:

{{
  "question": "What is the median earnings in 2016 for females with management, business, and financial occupations in Pennsylvania?",
  "entity": "people",
  "factors": {{
    "sex": ["female"],
    "occupation": ["management, business, and financial"],
    "location": ["Pennsylvania"],
    "year": ["2016"]
  }},
  "dimensions": [],
  "measures": ["median earnings"]
}}

Question: How many full-time, year-round civilian employed males and females were there in 2020?

Response:

{{
  "question": "How many full-time, year-round civilian employed males and females were there in 2020?",
  "entity": "people",
  "factors": {{
    "employment": ["full-time"],
    "year": ["2020"],
    "status": ["civilian employed"],
    "duration": ["year-round"]
  }},
  "dimensions": ["sex"],
  "measures": ["count"]
}}


# Data Question

{question}

# Response
